{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset134 PingFangSC-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset134 STSongti-SC-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh14260\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Hello, so this is the demo video showing my final project for cs550.\
\
so my project is to create a nice looking sun- earth - Moon system. In addition, I added a Mars. As you can see the mars is rotating on the outermost side.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 I set a good outside viewing so that viewers can see everything at the beginning.
\f0 \

\f1 I created three 2-D computer graphics - the orbits of the planets. And in this project Orbits are circular.\
I created four 3D computer graphics (they are the spheres of Earth, Moon, Mars, and Sun).\
I created textures for all four 3D computer graphics.\
I created a point light from the Sun.
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 In this system, the orbital radius and period are calculated
\f2 .\
They are following Kepler\'a1\'afs third law.
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 As
\f0  you can see,\

\f1 If Earth goes around the sun once, the moon goes around the Earth about 12 or 13 times, and Mars is about halfway around.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 This is because I used the actual earth, moon, and Mars orbital periods. The earth's orbital period is about 365 days, and Mars' orbital period is about 687 days, and the Moon\'92s orbital period is  about 27 days. In practice, a year 
\f3 on the mars
\f1  is about two years on the Earth.\
\
The speed of revolution, or their angular velocity, are also proportional to their orbital period. And they are also accelerated by the same scaling factor. The result is that the outer planet is not moving too slowly.\
\
In terms of the size of the planet, I also made adjustments 
\f3 by 
\f1 scaling.\
For example, the size of the sun should be 109 times bigger than the Earth, however, in this project, it is 2 times bigger than the Earth. So the radius of the sun has been reduced to 1/50 of its actual size. (So it is Scaled by 1/50).\
\
The actual size of Mars is about 1/2 of the size of the Earth, the actual size of the moon is about 1/3 of the size of the earth.\
\
so these proportions are also followed in this project.\
\
In addition,\
I created Key F, to freeze the animation, and I created Key 0 to turn on and off the point light from the Sun. Key I and Key M to switch viewing points. \
\
If I press key I now, it is giving us a fixed view on the sun, watching the earth moon and mars passing by. Due to the time constraints, it is not giving us a dynamic viewing point on the sun. The dynamic viewing point is better because the sun is rotating on its own axis.\
\
If I press key M, now We are watching the system from the top of the picture, and our eye position is dynamically following the Mars.\
\
In the future, if the Lookat position is computed, we can get a closer view to track Mars.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}